This morning’s subject is “Feed My Sheep.” This is simply saying: practice the  truths you have heard, for it means to shepherd the thoughts of the mind. For  most of us, our thoughts are like rambling sheep that have no shepherd. We are  called upon now to rule the thoughts, to rule the mind.

As you know, the kingdom of heaven is as a man starting into a far country, and  he calls unto himself his servants and gives them his property, his goods. To  one he gives five talents, to another he gives two, and to another he gives one  – “every man according to his several ability.” And when he returned he asked  for a reckoning. The one who had five traded and produced another five. He was  highly commended and told as he was faithful over a few things he would now be  ruler over many. The one who had two, he too traded and produced four, and he  too was highly commended and told to enter into the joy of the Lord. But the one  who had one was afraid because his master – so he thought – was a hard man, and  so he buried his talent in the earth and did not expand it. But I think you know  the story. He was condemned for his misuse of the talent. It was taken from him  and given to the one who had the most, the one who had ten.

Well, now you have received talents in the last few days or few weeks, each one  according to his ability. Some of us came with more prejudice to overcome, with  more superstition, some with other beliefs that did not quite coincide with what  we heard from the platform, and many of us had to overcome certain things before  we could accept others. So, some got one talent, some two, some five, some maybe  more. Now, a talent that is not exercised, like a muscle that is not exercised,  finally sleeps, and as far as we are concerned, it atrophies. It doesn’t really  die, but it goes so sound asleep, it might just as well not be part of ours. We  must practice what we have heard, for without practice the most profound  understanding in the world will not produce the desired results. So a little  talent (call it a talent now) if you really expand it, if you exercise it, will  be far more profitable than many talents that you do not exercise.

This morning we will just take one or two of the talents that we offer you. I  can’t force them upon you – “we offer you.” Here is a statement from the Book of  Amos: “I will sift the House of Israel among all nations, like as corn is sifted  in a sieve, yet shall not the least grain fall upon the earth.” I will sift him  and scatter him all over the nations of the world, but not the least grain shall  fall upon the earth. Do you know who Israel is? Who this Jacob is? The Israel  means “Is Real.” You can’t find it on the earth – don’t look for it on the  earth, and yet you must find him, for ” formed him in the womb to be my servant  and to bring Jacob – which is Israel – again unto me.” [Isaiah 49:5] So you and  I were formed from the womb to be the servant and to bring Jacob unto the Lord.  He is scattered all over the world but you will not find him – no, not the  smallest grain – upon the earth. But you will find him within yourself, for the  cue is given in Jacob. Jacob is the smooth-skinned lad. He is not like his  brother Esau, who has hair, which means something external. So the Israel you  are looking for this day is the thing you want to realize in the world. Do not  look out and hope to find it or even to be encouraged that you will find it, by  judging after the appearances of things. Do you seek health for a friend? That’s  Israel scattered, but not on earth. In all the nations of the world I have  scattered the house of Israel, but do not look into the eyes of a doctor for  hope. Do not look into the eyes of the patient for hope of his recovery because  you will not find him on earth. Not the least grain has fallen upon the earth.

So do you know what you want in this world? If you know exactly what you want,  where do you see it? You see it in the mind of yourself. So when you know what  you want, here is a part of Israel scattered, and you didn’t see him on earth.  You saw him in the kingdom within you, for the Kingdom of God is within. So you  saw a piece of Israel, now go bring him. I formed you from the womb to be my  servant and to bring Jacob again unto me. You take that thing you have seen in  the mind’s eye, which to make it practical, we will think of as a friend in  need. It may be physical need, maybe he is unwell, or it could be he needs a  job. Well, now you be the one who will decide what part of Israel you will bring  to the Lord and prove to the Lord you are a perfect servant. For the promise is  that when you prove you are the perfect servant, then you will no longer be  called servant; he will call you his friend. “I no longer call you servant for  now I call you friend for you do whatsoever I command you and, therefore, if you  do what I command you, you are no longer my servant, you are my friend.” And now  we will commune as a man to a friend, face to face. Another “you” has had this  association for a while, for that is the purpose of it: to move from the servant  to the friend; and after we become the friend of God for a while, then we turn  to that of the Son. We no longer are the friend. We become his Son, but we  cannot recognize the Sonship of God until we first prove ourselves as a servant.  So the servant is to bring Israel, i.e., imagine lovingly and believe in your  imaginal activity.

Now, we come back to the friend in need. Represent him to yourself as though he  now embodied the state you want him to realize in this world. If it is a job,  see him gainfully employed, take your imaginary hand, which is Jacob’s hand, and  put it into his imaginary hand. Leave it in that imagined state until it takes  on the tones of reality. When it seems to you real, that you are actually  touching him, clothe it with all the reality of the external world. So Jacob  clothed himself in the skins of Esau to deceive his father into believing that  he, Jacob, was Esau. So you take the Jacob within you, which is the  smooth-skinned lad, which is simply now the wish.

You want to congratulate him. You want to hear his voice. You want to hear him  tell you he has never been so happy in a job in his life, he has never been so  gainfully employed, that he loves going to work, he just loves everything about  his job. You actually hear him as though you heard him. Now you clothe it with  all the tones of reality. If you have two talents, give it two; if you have  five, give it five. Begin to make it more and more real. The day will come,  maybe this day, you will so clothe your Israel with the skins of Esau that you  can actually bring it as an objective fact to your Father and prove you are a  servant. For he formed you from the womb to actually be his servant. And what is  the servant to do? To bring Jacob unto me again. So here Jacob is, scattered –  lost in all the minds of men. You won’t find him on the earth. You will only  find him if you know where to look. Now to prove you know where to look, to  prove you are a good servant, go bring me Jacob. So when you bring Jacob, you  bring Jacob clothed in your own mind’s eye as though you heard what you want to  hear, as though you touched and you witnessed what you would like to touch and  see in this world. And when you remain faithful to your vision, the vision will  make for itself that perfect body in which to abide. Then you will see an  objective corresponding fact, but it is not there. It is all within your own  mind. It is there where he scattered it; it is there where he sustains it. He  will simply project it for you onto the screen of space that you may have  tangible evidence that you do know how to find and bring Jacob. If I know how to  go searching for my Israel, if I know how to go looking for him and how to  clothe him and give him the appearance of reality and I don’t do it, then I am  not the good servant who took the five talents and expanded them; I am the one  who buried it.

Now, some of us are almost afraid to test it because we are comforted if we can  believe this without quite putting it to the test; for if we put it to the test  and we fail, then we have no faith. We cannot go back to the former comfort that  we enjoyed, say, in a more orthodox meeting. We thought we would find it here,  and if I don’t test it and prove it to my own satisfaction, then I have neither  the old comfort of the orthodox concept nor the comfort that I enjoyed here, for  I disproved it. So I invite you to attempt, if you will, to disprove it. You  can’t disprove it, but if you go out knowing where to look for your Israel,  knowing why you are fashioned from the womb to be a servant, that is the first  stage. Until you test yourself, until you prove you can do it, you are not a  servant, not a servant of the Lord. But as you become a servant of the Lord, he  will make you his friend. Then the relationship will be on a higher level. You  will commune with your Father as a man does with a friend, face to face. You  will not see him as an object in space, but you will actually know how to bring  about a wished-for state of mind – bring it about at will. As you can bring  about a wished-for state of mind, you have made of the deep – which is your  Father – a friend, and you will actually know that companionship between the  deep of self and you, the being that is really a wonderful imagination. Then the  day will come, having been a wonderful friend of God, the seal will be broken  and you will be revealed as the being you really are, which is the Son of God  and the Father. Every person in the world is the child of God believing itself  to be a man born of man.

I have tried in the past two weeks to convince you that your origin is God. It  is not what the world would tell you – a little bug. For if you were a little  bug, a little spermatozoa, though you seem to embody yourself and expand in the  form of a man, your end will be a little spermatozoa, for all ends run true to  origins. So whatever the origin, you can determine the end. I tell you your  origin is God, therefore, your end is God. But to arrive at that end, you pass  through the stages of the servant, then the friend, then God, which is the Son  of God. For I and my Father are one, yet my Father is greater than I. Yes, I do  not claim that this union, this oneness, entitles me to the same identical  feeling of being Father. I and my Father are one, but my Father is greater than  I. For the thing symbolized that bears witness of this unseen state is not  really as great as that which it symbolizes. So we are one and I will know it,  and I will see my Father and see that he and I look alike, yet we are Father and  Son relationship. But before I can get near it, I must prove I am a good  servant.

Now, you take it this morning. We invite you to try it for a friend. We ask you  to try it for yourself. We have given you many angles how to test it, how to  think of what you want first and see in your mind’s eye – Israel. For when I  know clearly in my mind’s eye what I want, I am actually looking at Israel,  something that is real. It is real, but I must clothe it now in what the world  calls reality by giving it external tones. But the thing was real long before it  became a visible fact in the world. I see it in my mind’s eye by making as vivid  and as lifelike a representation as possible of what I would see and what I  would do and what I would actually hear, were I physically present in such a  situation now. When I see it clearly I am looking into the eyes of Israel, and I  found him scattered in the world – but not on the earth, for it is not on earth  that I see him. I see him in my mind. Now I am looking at it, and thinking of  it, but the secret is to think from it, to occupy that state and get into it.  When I get into it I will clothe it with reality. I can think of a place and  then close my eyes and assume that I am in that place. When I assume I am in the  place, I am clothing it with what the world calls reality. It was real before I  clothed it – when I saw it clearly this was Israel – but he wants me to bring  him, and the only way I can test that I can bring him and prove that I am the  servant, is to occupy the state. So, I occupy the feeling of my wish fulfilled.  When I get into the feeling of the wish fulfilled and remain faithful to that  state, then I am walking in my vision and – as we are told – if one would only  advance confidently in the direction of his dream and endeavor to live the life  which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected. Let me remain  faithful to my vision by occupying my vision – don’t just see it. He demands  that I bring him, bring Jacob again unto the Lord.

So Jacob is not a man who walked the face of the earth thousands of years ago,  and Israel is not a nation now gathered together on the shores of Africa. He  scatters the house of Israel in all the nations of the world. You might have  been taught to believe that the person who calls himself a Jew in the presence  of a nation is scattered Israel. Don’t believe it. Everyone in the world is that  which actually contains and holds Israel. As you think of something and desire  it to be a reality in your world, you are seeing Israel. Now he wants you to  bring him and he wants you to prove that you can bring him and become the  perfect servant of the Lord. Don’t be afraid to be the servant; become the  perfect servant of God and then become his friend, and then realize you are his  Son.

Let us go out determined that we will take the requests brought in here this  morning There were a hundred odd that came in, but there are many more. Maybe  you do not know them; you can take them collectively. But you can take an  individual friend, a member of your family, and decide this day you are going to  bring about some blessing in the individual’s life, you have it – you have the  power to bless; for the power to confer reality on your wish for the friend is  the power to bless that friend. If your friend is not well and you want the  friend to be well, you simply assume that you and he (or she) are carrying on a  conversation from a premise which you establish now, and the premise is that he  or she never felt better in their lives, and you hear it and you witness it.  Take your hand, your imaginary hand, and embrace them. Tell them what you feel  about them, actually feel it. And then you do nothing outwardly to make it so,  for things that you are going to see are not made of things that do appear. So  you do not prescribe anything for them. You do not change their physical diet.  You don’t offer any recommendation as to what they should do. You simply assume  that they are already the embodiment of the state you desire for them, so you  don’t start prescribing. Leave that out completely. You simply walk faithful to  your image of the friend and you transform that image in your own mind’s eye.

You do it and see if you can bring him, because if you can’t do that and prove  it to yourself, you have not yet proven you are a servant; therefore, the  friendship is far removed from you. Everyone must prove that he is first a  servant, as we read in Isaiah 49: “I formed you from the womb to be my servant  and to bring Jacob again unto me.” Then I am told: even though Israel is not  altogether gathered I am blessed. The individual who does it, he doesn’t have to  bring the whole body of Israel. If he brings Jacob – one individual transformed  – and proves he can transform him, he is blessed and receives a certain glory  long before the body of Israel is collected and brought back.

So here you wonder why he is called “the king of Israel.” Why is he called the  king? People thought it meant a man who looked out upon a small little nation  and thought he was king, or they thought he was king (or even in irony when they  said it). He isn’t that. The individual who becomes Son is truly king of the  whole vast world of Israel, or [of] the ideas floating in the mind of man. For  he is their shepherd, he is their king. He can command any idea to clothe itself  in form. That is the king of Israel. That is the one that can make real a state  that is only a wish. “Is Real” is the true Israel. Here, long before we become  that – lifted up – we must start to discipline the mind to become the perfect  servant.

There is no better time to start than now. If you are afraid to try it, then I  wouldn’t know what to tell you, because in this place you must test it. They do  not have a religion where you just come here and sit on Sundays and gather  together and form a nice little friendship this way. This is not that kind of a  religion at all. This is all to awaken the mind of man and make him a shepherd,  make him something that rules. In fact, the very word translated “feed” in John  21 is translated many times in the Bible as “shepherd,” as “rule.” In Matthew 2,  one shall come from Bethlehem; he shall have dominion over Israel. Well, in that  one (he shall rule Israel) the word translated “rule” is the same word  translated in John 21 as “feed.” So don’t take it literally. It simply means to  take this mind of yours and discipline the whole mind by gathering things  together and walking faithful to an invisible state, for Jacob is invisible. You  thought he was a man who was a smooth-skinned lad. That is the way the mystic  has of telling you this is a subjective state, and that you must learn to clothe  [it] with objectivity. You walk faithful to the subjective state, and then in  time it takes on the tones and the appearance of something external. The moment  you detach your mind from that state – though at the moment of detachment it had  some corresponding external witness – it will begin to fade. If you detach your  mind from success in the midst of success, success as a reality outside of you  fades and vanishes from your world. And then whatever you put your mind on, it  takes the place of, proving success was not on the outside at all; it was within  you. You clothed it for a moment and gave it the appearance of reality. But the  day you are not faithful to the consciousness of being successful, the seeming  solid reality of success vanishes from your world, proving itself to be the  shadow it always was, and the reality – the light of success – was the idea in  you with which you were identified. So if I assume that I am _____ (and I name  it) and I remain faithful to it, it comes out and makes itself seemingly real.  If I cease to assume it and sustain it, it slowly vanishes from my world, and if  it vanishes I might think the reality was there. I have forgotten how to bring  Jacob. I have forgotten how to bring him to the Lord.

So here let us remember where Israel is. It’s not in the Near East. Israel is  scattered in all the nations of the world, in your mind – that is where he is.  And now you have a purpose in this world and if you really love the teaching (as  the words are: “Lovest thou me?”) you say you are faithful. “Peter do you love  me?” He doesn’t call him Peter by the way, he calls him Simon. He never calls  him Peter in any parts of the Bible; He is referred to as Peter, but whenever he  is addressed by the central figure of the gospels, he always calls him Simon,  and Simon means to hear, it means to listen. Well, have you heard, have you  really heard, Simon? Yes. Then do you love what you have heard? Lovest thou me,  or what I have told you that I am? I am the thing that I teach, so do you love  me? Then feed my sheep. Become ruler of this mind of yours and prove you really  love the thing you tell me you have heard. If you have heard it, then you are  Simon; and if you have really heard it to the point of acceptance, prove you  have accepted it by taking the talent received and expand it. Don’t let the  shepherd come and when he asks you for the talent, you say you were afraid and  you buried it. Let us not be afraid to actually test the truth of the principles  we try to explain here.

So, all these are our truths that we have accepted. Now, some got one, some two,  some got five. We have done our best in the past two weeks to give you all that  we could within two weeks, unfolded from the Bible. We showed you the Bible as a  mystery, that all your members are buried, not in one little book, but in all  the books. They are all telling you the story about yourself. How God became you  that you may become God. How God died to become man in the sense of forgetting  that he was God, as he awoke as man. Man walking the earth has no knowledge he  is God, and the individual who dares to claim that he is, and tells you that you  are, is usually condemned by those who appoint themselves as teachers. That is  the blind leading the blind, and they will call you arrogant if you dare to even  demonstrate the power of the mind. And they will tell you that’s not right – you  are taking back from God the thing that belonged to God. You see, they are sound  asleep. They don’t realize that God became man for one purpose, that he may have  the companionship of sons as Gods. So man must awaken and realize who he really  is, and he realizes that by starting first as a servant.

I have given you, I think, a perfect technique to prove that you are a servant.  Try it today! If you succeed in the simplest little way of taking an invisible  state and making it become a reality, like the job for a friend or even the  getting of a hat, or even the finding of the proper apartment, or even the  getting of some little thing – you try it. If you lost something, “Nothing is  lost in all my holy mountain,” sayeth the Lord, for if it isn’t lost it is  scattered now in Israel. Prove that it isn’t lost. What is it that you have  lost? Well, take it in your own mind’s eye and then mentally touch it and  mentally appropriate it and feel that you have it, that it is yours now, and  remain faithful to that assumption and see if the thing returns. If the thing is  recovered, you have proved that you have found Israel (a portion of him anyway)  and you know how to take him and clothe him in such tones of reality that you  can bring him to the Lord, for the Lord is your own wonderful consciousness.  When you say: “I AM,” that is the Lord. Go tell them I AM hath sent you. So when  you walk in the feeling “I am so and so,” it is not seen as yet, but that is  something you are bringing to the Lord, and the more you feel it to be real, the  more natural it becomes. Then it clothes itself in external facts, but the  external fact is not the truth of it. Truth and fact oppose each other. Truth  does not depend upon fact. Truth depends upon the intensity of your imagination.  Therefore, if I actually am intense about it, that is true. I might tomorrow  find a corresponding fact to bear witness – but, as I said earlier, let me not  continue in that assumption and the fact will fade, proving it was not reality  at all. Reality was in my assumption, and so truth depends not upon fact, but  upon the intensity of imagination.

Then you will understand the drama when truth faces what is called fact or  reason, and when asked: what is the truth – truth remains silent. He would not  answer because fact or reason thinks that a true judgment must conform to the  external reality to which it relates. If I say: “Aren’t these lovely” and I  mention something that no one present can see, you say my judgment isn’t true,  for if it isn’t on something on the outside. Then what I say has no reality. I  must be suffering from some illusion. If I persist in it, and you cannot see it,  then it is hallucination. But I know from experience that I can take an  illusion, and through the medium of an illusion I can relate myself to reality  or “Is Real” by walking faithful to what you call my illusion. I simply assume a  state knowing I have found it; it is scattered in the nations of the world and  finding it in myself as a desirable state, I appropriate it. Walking faithful to  my appropriated state I gradually become it. Disentangling myself from that  state eventually, I cease to be it, for that which requires a state of  consciousness to embody itself cannot be embodied without such a state of  consciousness.

When I know that the whole thing depends upon my appropriation of the parts of  Israel to bring Jacob to my Father, then I will start to do it, and then my  talents will run from five to ten and to twenty, and finally when I have all  these talents I will be worthy of being a friend. When I have been faithful in a  few things, he will make me Lord over much. Then he will tell me: I no longer  call you servant. I call you friend, for you did what I commanded you. Now,  having done what I commanded you, you are my friend indeed. We will walk in that  association for a while, communing with the deep, knowing the deep of self is my  real being that men call God. I won’t see him as another. I will commune with  him as though he were another, and he and I will talk across that invisible  state just as though man spoke face to face with a friend. For after this  invisible state when I commune with the deep is reached to a point of complete  satisfaction, the last seal will be broken. He will break the seal and reveal me  as his son, and when I see him and look into his face he will be just like me  and I will be like him. Then you will know the mystery of the Epistle of John:  “Beloved what manner of love.”

Just imagine what love God has bestowed upon us that we should be called the  Sons of God. And then, although at this moment, that I feel it from the deep, I  don’t quite know what I am like or what he is like, yet I do know this much:  that when I see him I will know him. And why will I know him? Because I’ll be  like him. I will look right into the mirror of my own being, and realize it was  for that purpose that I, the Father, embodied myself as man, hoping that  eventually he would awaken and become a conscious being, moving completely from  a passive reflector to a conscious cooperator in my kingdom. So, man gradually  moves from the passive state to the active state, and the process is the  servant, the friend, the Son.