The whole vast world is no more than man’s imagining pushed out. I must qualify  that by saying that the world outside of man is dead, but Man is a living soul,  and it responds to man, yet man is sound asleep and does not know it. The Lord  God placed man in a profound sleep, and as he sleeps the world responds as in a  dream, for Man does not know he is asleep, and then he moves from a state of  sleep where he is only a living soul to an awakened state where he is a  life-giving Spirit. And now he can himself create, for everything is responding  to an activity in man which is Imagination. “The eternal body of man is all  imagination; that is God himself.” (Blake)

Three wonderful case histories were given to me last Tuesday and I can best  describe what I mean by telling you of one of them. Here is this lady driving  east on Sunset and she comes to a stop at Laurel Canyon. A bus is to her right,  and then she sees this little elderly lady in grey who is running diagonally  across the street through traffic, trying to catch that bus. The bus driver sees  her but he pulls out leaving her on the street. The lady, who gave me this  story, told me that she felt compassion for this elderly lady, but she was not  in a lane where she could give her a lift; she had to pull out with her line  when the light changed. She said to herself, ‘I will give that lady a lift just  the same.’ So in Imagination, she opens her car door and lets her in.

Then still in her Imagination, she hears the lady tell her that she is meeting  some friends a few blocks away and if she had to wait for another bus she is  afraid they would not wait for her. The lady in the car carried on this  imaginary conversation and it took maybe a half a minute until she felt  satisfied about it. Four blocks ahead, as she again stopped for a light, someone  tapped on the car window, and here stands a breathless little elderly with gray  hair dressed in gray. My friend lowered the window and the little lady said ‘I  have missed my bus. Can you give me a lift? Friends are waiting for me and when  they see I do not get off the bus they may go on and leave me.’ My friend let  her get into the car and then six blocks further the little lady said. ‘There  are my friends!’ and thanks the driver and gets out.

Now here is a lady whom I say is awake. And may I tell you that in Heaven there  was joy because one called a sinner (we are all sinners, for we are all missing  the mark, and the mark is to awaken) has discovered that the whole world is  responsive to what we are thinking. She could not actually give the first little  lady a lift so she did it in Imagination, and then she sees this other elderly  lady and gives her a lift. Here she is enacting her imaginary drama, and four  blocks later when the dream is completed this little ole lady taps at her car  window. In her imagination she gave a lift to a little grey haired lady dressed  in gray. Does it matter if it was the lady behind at the last bus stop or this  lady dressed in gray? Everyone is responding to what we are doing in our  Imagination. There is no outside world that is really alive. It depends, for its  aliveness, on the activity of man who is a living soul. Man named the animals,  the birds, the trees, ‘ everything. God became man as a living soul, but He had  to forget He was God to become man, and now man has to become a life-giving  spirit, where he knows that everything is an imaginal activity.

Here, at that corner where the first part of this little drama took place, half  of those who witnessed it would bawl out the bus driver for not waiting for the  old lady, and the other half would say she was a fool for running into the  street. This lady in the car could have reacted like that, for the dreamer does  not know that he is dreaming. It is only when we awake they know they are  causing the dream, or even had a dream. The lady in the car saw only someone who  had failed to realize an objective, so she enacted a scene for her, implying she  had realized it. And four blocks later she meets a little old lady who says to  her the exact words she had heard in her Imagination. Her Imaginary dream  unfolds in detail. An awakened dream is crystallized in the world. ‘Real are the  dreams of gods, as they slowly pass their pleasure in a long immortal dream.’  When man completely awakens he dreams his pleasure and everything responds while  he dreams it.

We think everything in the world is completely independent from our perception  of it, but the whole thing is dead. I see it, and come upon it, but the whole  thing is dead’. frozen. Then I start an activity within me and then the world  that was dead becomes alive, but not knowing I am doing it, I am sound asleep  and then the whole thing takes over and it becomes a nightmare. But I must keep  control and know it is dependant on me. The world is infinite response and the  thing that makes it alive is the living soul called generic man (male-female).  And then God wove Himself into the brain of this generic man, and then He  sleeps. As man begins to awaken he controls and takes over, and is no longer a  victim of his vision, so he has control of his attention. Everyone is free to  create his world as he wants it ‘ if he knows that the whole thing is responding  to him.

In Luke 13 we are told the story of five Galileans who have been murdered by  Pilate. ‘And he mixed their blood with their offering, etc.’ And the central  figure of the gospels which is your awakened Imagination says to his followers;  ‘Do you think these five were worse sinners than the others? I tell you ‘No’.  But unless you repent you will all likewise perish in the same manner.’ Here on  one level we think it served them right, just as those who saw the scene on the  Sunset Blvd. would say ‘It served her right ‘ cutting across the street like  that!’ In this story in Luke we are told that a man sinned in the past and was  murdered by Pilate. It has nothing to do with it. Then Jesus asked them, ‘Do you  think that the eighteen upon whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them were  worse offenders than the others who dwell in Jerusalem? I tell you, No; but  unless you repent you will all likewise perish.

On this level of the dream people think of getting even. It is a dream of  confusion and people are reactivating, but man has to awaken and become an  actor. On this present level man is always reflecting life, not knowing he is  the cause of all he observes. But when he awakens from the dream and then  becomes an actor. What percentage would have done what this lady in the car did?  They would have reacted, or feasted on the fruit of the tree of good and evil.  They would have had a violent reaction, and then they would have had a violent  resistance from this dead universe. But this lady makes her dream and the whole  thing comes to pass exactly as she pictured it, even to the number of blocks.  You might almost think she had manufactured that little old lady in gray, but I  tell you everything comes in response to our own wonderful imaginal activity.

You can be anything in this world but you cannot know it or expect it to come  unless you Act. If you react based on the past, you continue in the same  pattern. To be the man you desire to be you must create the scene, as this lady  did, and the whole world will be convulsed if that is necessary to bring it to  pass. There is no other power but God, but God had to ‘forget’ he was God in  this state of sleep, and then He awakens and consciously determines the  conditions he wants in the world.

So again I say to this lady, the angels rejoiced over your awakening, and ‘ I  say this without pride ‘ they also rejoiced because I kept my promise that I  would come and awaken this sleeper in the world of men. For I, also, had to  forget everything to become man. For when one goes and then returns he has to  forget everything to become man. For when one goes, and then returns he has to  forget everything, but he promises he will carry out his pledge and help man  awaken. Then the living soul becomes a life-giving spirit, and then creates.

Take it seriously. Do not go through this with your dream un-acted. It took this  lady 30 seconds to enact her drama and another 60 seconds to realize it. You  tell yourselves -it must take time- What time? Read Corinthians 1:18, I could go  before men with all the words of wisdom, but know only one thing, the cross. To  the wise it is foolishness, etc. What is the cross? Think of it in this light.  You began, seemingly in your mother’s womb and end in the grave. You do not, but  you have that picture. Look on the horizontal line of the cross as time.  Intersecting this vertical line and call that infinite states, like Jacobs  ladder. At any section of time I can move up or down. Time is flowing and the  state with which I am identified still unfolds.

So, while seated in my car I can  move up and enact a drama. I acted and remained within that state. It unfolded.  It took 60 seconds. There are infinite states intersecting the line of time. We  become one with a certain state and it demonstrates itself in actual phenomena.  Everyone here, it need not take you more than 30 seconds to bring about a change  of state. What would it be like? And you name your desire. Remain in that state,  and that state, by the passage of time, will unfold in your world. You do  nothing about it once you have entered the state’for the outer must move by  compulsion of the inner power.

This little lady in gray had to come to my friend’s car. Every detail of that  imaginary act took place.

Why not? The universe is infinite response. When you know that there is no one  in the whole world could ever faze you, because he is a shadow. I have seen the  whole world dead, completely frozen, and then I allowed something within me to  start and everything became animated. Then you ask yourself a million questions.  Who am I? What is it all about? Why? Everything here is responding to the  imaginal activity within man.

When someone who is sick becomes well: when someone who is blind then sees, is  that more of a miracle than what this lady told? She is awake. If you make a  fortune it means nothing. All the honors of men in a state of sleep are as  nothing. You must ‘repent’. It has nothing to do with the so-called judgment of  God. It is only a dream and man is reacting to the dream and he does not know  that he is the dreamer and causing all the dream.

The literal meaning of the  Greek word translated as repent means ‘a change of mind.’ It has nothing to do  with the moral picture. The churches introduced that, but it has nothing to do  with it. I don’t care what a man has done, if he changes his mind in this  meaning of the word ‘repent’ things will change, for he is then on the line of  vertical line of states. He stands at a point on the states. There are infinite  states and we must learn to distinguish between the state and the individual  occupying the state. But I can now change and move into another state. I can in  Time, do it in a split second and rise on the vertical line of the states.

So,  ‘I come, only to teach the cross.’, said Paul. I will rise within myself and  ignore the former state, and within myself I will assume that things are as I  want them to be. If I remain faithful, the passage of Time will unfold it. So,  Blake said, ‘Eternity is in love with the productions of Time.’ I tell you, do  not let anyone ever convince you that because of your past accomplishments or  your present state in the world that you cannot change your position by rising  within yourself, and then see the whole world respond. And I mean NOW!

So, I tell you this lady is awake; the Child is awake in her, the purpose of  life is to awake. If the whole vast world or sleeping humanity thought her  important, would she feel flattered? If in a dream everyone praised you and then  you awoke and found it was all a dream, would you be flattered? One dreamer puts  a medal on another dreamer, and they do not know it. It is only the awakening  that is important. Awakening and doing the will of God. God’s will is in you  active as your own Imagination, and His will is to realize the imaginal state.  To realize something novel as this lady did or to maintain something to maintain  in being, or to let things go that you feel are unlovely. I will do it all and  only act, and stop re-acting. Then the whole book, The Bible, becomes alive.  Leave all the ‘wise men to mock it or tolerate’. Let them reach the moon or the  stars, they are all dead. Nothing lives outside of man. Man is the living soul,  turning slowly into a life-giving Spirit. But you cannot tell it except in a  parable or metaphor to excite the mind of man to get him to go out and prove it.

Leave the good and evil and eat of the Tree of Life. Nothing in the world is  untrue if you want it to be true. You are the truth of everything that you  perceive. ‘I am the truth, and the way, the life revealed.’ If I have physically  nothing in my pocket, then in Imagination I have MUCH. But that is a lie based  on fact, but truth is based on the intensity of my imagination and then I will  create it in my world. Should I accept facts and use them as to what I should  imagine? No.

It is told us in the story of the fig tree. It did not bear for  three years. One said, ‘Cut it down, and throw it away.’ But the keeper of the  vineyard pleaded NO’! Who is the tree? I am the tree; you are the tree. We bear  or we do not. But the Keeper said he would dig around the tree and feed it ‘ or  manure it, as we would say today ‘ and see if it will not bear. Well I do that  here every week and try to get the tree ‘ you ‘ me to bear. You should bear  whatever you desire. If you want to be happily married, you should be. The world  is only response. If you want money, get it. Everything is a dream anyway. When  you awake and know what you are creating and that you are creating it that is a  different thing.

The greatest book is the Bible, but it has been taken from a moral basis and it  is all weeping and tears. It seems almost ruthless as given to us in the Gospel,  if taken literally. The New Testament interprets the Old Testament, and it has  nothing to do with morals. You change your mind and stay in that changed state  until it unfolds. Man thinks he has to work himself out of something, but it is  God asleep in you as a living soul, and then we are reborn as a life-giving  spirit. We do it here in this little classroom called Earth or beyond the grave,  for you cannot die. You can be just as asleep beyond the grave. I meet them  constantly, and they are just like this. Same loves and same hates. No change.  They will go through it until they finally awake, until they cease to re-act and  begin to act.

Do not take this story lightly which I have told you tonight. Take it to heart.  Tonight when you are driving home enact a scene. No matter what it is. Forget  good and evil. Enact a scene that implies you have what you desire, and to the  degree that you are faithful to that state, it will unfold in your world and no  power can stop it, for there is no other power.

Nothing is independent of your perception of it, and this goes for that great  philosopher among us who is still claiming that everything is independent of  the perceiver, but that the perceiver has certain powers. It is not so. Nothing  is independent of the perceiver. Everything is ‘burned up’ when I cease to  behold it. It may exist for another, but not for me.

Let us make our dream a  noble one, for the world is infinite response to you, the being you want to be.

Now let us go into the silence.