The Bible is not a product of human beings; it is not  constructed by man. It is the history of man’s discovery by God’s revelation of  the changing name of God, and it increases in its value to man. In Genesis 4:26  we are told that a child was born whose name was Enosh, born to Sarah, and men  began to call upon the name of the Lord. That is the first time that man began  to call upon the name of the Lord. The word Enosh means “mortal man,” something  that is fragile, something that simply wears out and disappears. Mortal man  began to ask concerning his origin: Why am I here, what is the cause of the  phenomena of life?

The next time we see it is in the 32nd chapter of  Genesis. This is the night, we are told, a man called Jacob (the supplanter)  wrestled with God, and when it came to the breaking of the day God said to him:  “Let me depart.” And he said: “I will not let you depart until you bless me.”  And God blessed him. Then he said to God: “What is your name?” and God answered:  “Why do you ask my name?” He would not tell him, so Jacob called the spot where  God touched him “Peniel,” which means “the face of God,” for said he “I have  seen God face to face and yet my life is preserved.” Then as the sun rose Jacob  faltered because where God had touched shrank. It was the sinew upon his thigh.  That is what man at that level of consciousness believed to be the creative  power of the universe.

Today, 1963, you and I are witnesses to the  most fantastic things that man has conceived. Missiles in space that can reach  the sun, these IBM machines, electronic brain – but nothing that man has ever  devised or brought to birth can compare to a child. Nothing in this world that  man can conceive is comparable to the brain of a child. For the child conceived  the instrument that now frightens us. We have a bomb, nuclear bomb, but that  can’t compare to the brain that conceived it, no matter what we do with it. Read  Genesis 32, where man once thought the sex act was God. The very act of  producing the most sensitive thing in the world is the form of a child. (There  isn’t a part of the world that someone hasn’t erected phallic images in its  worship of God.)

Now we turn to the Book of Exodus, where the name  changes because it wasn’t yet revealed. Man began to call upon the name of the  Lord, but they didn’t know what to call upon; they thought it was sex. Read  Exodus 3:13-15, how God reveals himself to his chosen vessel, Moses. And Moses  said to the Lord: “When I come to the people of Israel and I say to them, ‘the  Lord, your God, has sent me unto you,’ and they ask me ‘What is his name?’ what  shall I say? And the Lord answered: “I AM who I AM.” The words are every form of  the verb “to be” – “I AM that I AM” – I will be what I will be. “Say unto them,  ‘I AM has sent me unto you.'” So when you come to the people of Israel, say to  them the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of  Jacob has sent me unto you, and this is my name forever: “I AM.” No other. And  this will lead you out of the wilderness into the promised land. That was the  second grand revelation of the name of God. Man thought it was the creative act.  Who could deny that nothing in this world that man has ever created was  comparable to that of a child – nothing. And he has to trace it back to his  origin of the act, and all of a sudden it came out of this fantastic organism.  And then comes a revelation of another kind, that the name is “I  AM.”

Then comes the final revelation, which we find in the New Testament,  and he brings something entirely different that man has not seen before. He  reveals the name as “Father.” “Holy Father, keep them in thy name which thou  hast given unto me, that they may be one as you and I are one.” He gave them the  name that was his name and the name was ‘Father” – the final revelation of God  to man concerning who he really is, his father. “So in many and various ways God  spoke of old to our fathers by the prophets but in these last days he has spoken  to us by a son.” If he has spoken by a son, then he is [a] father. And so God  speaks to man in his final days through his son, and the son reveals to that man  that he is the father of that son, and then – and only then, does man know who  he really is. But until that day comes take the second revelation of the name of  God, which is “I AM” and use it and use it wisely. You can use it for anything  in the world. You are told if you blaspheme against his name you must be stoned  to death, as told us in Leviticus 24:16: “Anyone who blasphemes against the name  I AM,” and the name has already been revealed in Leviticus 3. Exodus 2 revealed  the name. Now if you blaspheme against this name, stone him to death.

One  who was born of a Hebrew woman who knew an Egyptian man, cursed the name of God,  and they listened to see what God would say to do to such a man: stone him to  death. Stone does not mean that you take stones and throw at him, as people will  do. The stones are the literal facts of life. How could I blaspheme against the  name of God? With God all things are possible, so his name is “I AM.” And I dare  to say: “I am unwanted; I am poor; I am ill; I am completely ignored in this  world.” Well, this is blasphemy against God. For it is not what I really want in  this world, or for anyone else that I love. So here I am blaspheming against  God.

I am told in John 8: “Except you believe that I am he you shall die  in your sins.” “Sin” is missing the mark. If I don’t believe that I am the man I  want to be, I remain where I am at that moment of not daring to assume that I am  the man that I want to be, and remain in that limitation, so I die, missing the  mark. So the being you really are – if the second revelation is true (and I can  tell you it is true, that his name is “I AM”) – it doesn’t mean you worship  something on the outside when you say, “I am.” And the day that you actually  contact it as though the “I-thou” concept was within yourself, you feel who you  really are.

Now here is a true story which I heard this last Saturday. I  am not a member of the Turf Club, but I go occasionally when I am invited and  someone takes me. So last Saturday I and my wife were taken to the Turf Club. I  was introduced to this little man who sat just one row below. Strange, weird  little fellow, and then they told me his story. He had come here penniless from  Kentucky. How he got the money necessary to buy a small little plot of land, I  do not know, that was not told me; but he bought a small little plot of land in  Ventura County. He wanted to have oil, so he would sleep on the land itself. He  didn’t build some little shack – he slept right on the ground. With his head to  the ground he would hear oil coming in, he would smell oil, and he would come  home sometimes in the morning at 6 A.M. and his wife was distraught. “What has  happened to you?” He was sleeping on the land bringing it in.

Today the  man – I would say he is ten years my senior, which is 68, pushing 70 – he has no  financial problems. He has given away fortunes. He is worth over six million, so  he told me himself, but now he has another problem, and he has forgotten the  name of God. His present problem is boredom. He goes to the track five days a  week, Tuesday through Saturday. If he drops ten thousand, it’s no problem, if he  drops twenty thousand, that’s no problem. But he is bored and he is not  physically well, and he doesn’t remember how he brought oil into being by the  name of God. When he put his head on that earth and began to listen, who was  listening? If you would say to him: “What are you doing?” “I am smelling oil.”  That’s what he would say. You have called the name of God. “I am smelling oil. I  am hearing oil,” is what he would say. He brought it all in, but he doesn’t  remember the name of God.

Now he is saying: “I am unwell.” He is  blaspheming the name of God. You are told: The man who blasphemes the name of  God, stone him to death.” The stone is “showing the facts of life,” so he is  showing the facts of life. “You aren’t feeling well, are you?” So you see all  the things in the world wrong with him, and you tell him. These are the stones,  but he has forgotten and those around him don’t know. He once used the name of  God wisely and brought wealth into this world. He could bring health into this  world if he would use the name of God.

“It is my name forever,” said God  in Exodus 3. But I will reveal a still greater name as man begins to awaken, and  the final name is “Father.” And so: “Show us the Father,” and you’ll be  satisfied. “I have been so long with you and yet you do not know me, Phillip? He  who has seen me has seen the Father, how then can you say ‘show us the Father?'”  So here, I tell you, I am the father, and no one knows he is the father. ‘Holy  Father keep them in thy name, which thou hast given me,’ that they may be one  even as we are one.” There is no way in this world that you and I will know we  are one, save through this last act of God revealing himself, when he gives you  his last name, which is “Father.” I am the Father, that I do know, and you will  be the Father of the same and only begotten Son of God. And when you see him, as  I have seen him – and you will see him, and you are his Father – then you and I  are one. For I can’t be the father of your son and not be you. And that is God’s  final revelation to man on this level.

So, “In many and various ways God  spoke of old to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has  spoken to us by a Son.” And the son reveals the nature of the father. No one  knows the father except the son, and anyone to whom the son chooses to reveal  him. Until that day comes, use the second revelation – which is forever his name  – and use it wisely, as we are told in the 9th Psalm, 10th verse: “Those who  know thy name trust in thee.” If you know the name. The name is the individual  himself. God’s name is I AM and that is God. So tonight if you know the name,  believe it, trust in his name. And you listen as though you heard what you would  hear, were you the man you want to be, and trust in his name, and he will never  forsake you.

Here the name changes as man begins to awaken as God, and  the final revelation – I know of no greater chapter than the 17th of John, where  he reveals himself and gives himself to man. “Holy Father glorify me with thine  own self.” He doesn’t want any other glory. It’s God himself giving himself to  man, for that is his purpose. And when he succeeds in his purpose the man to  whom he has given himself is God and God is “Father,” the final revelation.  Therefore, there must be a child. Where is the child if I am a father? And here  comes the child into being and he is David, God’s only begotten son. “David,  thou art my son, this day I have begotten thee.” That is concealed in man until  that last moment when the veil is lifted and the fatherhood is revealed to man  through the nature of the son. There you see David, and David tells you who you  are. You are his father, he calls you father, and calling you father, then the  89th Psalm is fulfilled: “I have found David” and his cry unto me: “Thou art my  father, my God and the Rock of my salvation.” And you see him and yet there is  no change in your I AM-ness. The self that becomes his father is the same self  that it was before, only a far greater self. It includes fatherhood, but the  same sense of I AM-ness. You haven’t changed your distinct individuality, but  now it is enlarged to include fatherhood, and that father is God. And you tell  it to the world in the hope you can make it as clear as it is to  you.

Whether you accept it or reject it, it is true and the day must  come, in time, when each individual will have the same experience and he will  pass through it all. Until that happens use his name wisely, as revealed to us  through his prophet Moses in the 3rd chapter of Exodus. Use it for wealth,  health, or recognition, but don’t blaspheme against the name of God. “Unless you  believe that I am he you will die in your sins.”

So, we are told: “They  took up stones to throw at him, because he had offended them, that he had  blasphemed the name of God for he claimed ‘I am God.'” That was blasphemy on  their level and they took up stones to throw at him. What stones? They told him  they knew his father. They knew his earthly mother, his brothers, and his  sisters, and they named them. They said: I know your father and mother, Joseph  and Mary, and they named the four brothers. They implied multiple sisters. And  then they began to show him the facts of life, and the facts contradicted his  claim. Therefore they were stoning him with the facts of life. These were the  stones. Then he disappeared out of their midst. He could not argue with that  mind, because they knew exactly his physical background, and he is telling them:  “If you will receive what I tell you, I will give you power to become children  of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the  will of man, but of God.” This verse is something entirely different in Greek  physiology. “To be born of blood” they meant that the seed of man mingled with  the blood of woman, and from this union came a child. To be born of the “will of  the flesh” is by sexual impulse. It wasn’t born that way. To be born of man is  to have human parentage. It wasn’t born that way. It was born of God. Something  entirely different, where man suddenly awakes within himself and he steps out of  his own skull to find out that all along he has been sleeping.

Then you  read these words in Revelation 1:18: “And he thought himself alive and he was  dead.” Here a man was dead, and all along he believed he was alive. The whole  vast world, the sleep is so profound, it is so deep, he doesn’t know he is  sleeping. And the sleep is so deep he is likened spiritually to a dead man. Then  one day, in God’s own wonderful time, he awakens himself in man and brings him  forth, and then he awakes for the first time to realize all through the ages he  has been dead but he didn’t know it. But now he is resurrected by the mercy of  God. He thought he was asleep while he thought he was awake, and yet he was  dead.

In the meanwhile, you who think yourself alive, try this principle  by the use of God’s name. It will not fail you, I promise you it will not. For  one thing bear in mind this: you may have wealth tonight and have it heavily  insured – furniture, jewelry, furs, but you left it when you came here tonight,  left it wherever you have this outside wealth. You may have stocks and bonds,  they may be insured, but you left them wherever they are, maybe in vaults, your  homes. Standing here just about two years ago I left this platform and looked  out and saw these enormous flames and all these beautiful homes burning. They  were all left behind wherever the people were, all consumed in a matter of  moments. But one thing you can’t leave behind, and you always take it with you  after you find the name. Can you go any place where you can leave behind your “I  AM”? Where can you go in this world where you will leave behind you the only  power in the world, “I AM”? “Those who know thy name put their trust in thee.”  Not in the bank, not in their social position, their financial, intellectual, or  any other position. “Put their trust in thee,” Who are you? “I AM.” So everyone  who came here tonight brought that name with them. When you leave here you are  going to take it with you. Maybe you don’t know you carried it with you. You can  have a treasure and not know you have it. If I had a billion dollars deposited  in the bank but I didn’t know it, I could die of starvation for want of a  dollar; and yet I could sign a check if I knew I had it, and would withdraw it  for my earthly need.

You can’t leave behind you God’s name. He’s put  himself into you, your very being, your own I AM-ness – that is God. And because  it is God, don’t blaspheme against the name. Use it wisely, use it lovingly, and  I tell you: “What are you hearing?” And you tell me: I am hearing so and so, or  I am thinking so and so. Well, see to it that what you are hearing, feeling,  what you are thinking, is in harmony with your highest ideal. For you will draw  it out just as this man drew out his oil from this little bit of dirt, and today  he is worth millions – but bored. You will be able to use it wisely through your  earthly days, and maybe in this embodiment the final one will be revealed to  you, but only God knows when he reveals the final one.

I can talk about  it and tell you about it but I cannot lift the curtain for you -only the son  himself can reveal you as the father. I can tell you: you are going to be the  father, that I do know, but I have no power to tear that curtain and show you  David. He and he alone will reveal you as the father. “No one knows who the son  is except anyone to whom the son chooses to reveal him.” But I will tell you:  one day he is going to tear that curtain from the mind and stand before you and  call you father. You will know exactly who he is; there will be no doubt in your  mind whatsoever. You are looking at your only begotten son. Begotten not by any  woman in this world. Begotten out of your own wonderful being – your mind, and  it’s David. And he will be just as he is described in the Book of Samuel, no  doubt about it.

I can’t tell you the thrill that is in store for you  after it happens. You are so excited you can’t think of anything but. You may  bore your friends, you may bore everyone that you meet, because you can’t think  of anything but this enormous event that has happened to you, this heavenly  thing that has taken place. You may be a single man, a man who has never known a  woman in this world, but all of a sudden you are a father, and you are a father  in the true sense of the word. Then you will know he was “not born of blood, nor  of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God,” and he calls you  father, and you know God is his father. He tells you exactly who you  are.

Then you have to walk the earth for the remaining years shut out,  because you are still wearing the garment of flesh. And although you are now  heir to a present and to a promise that has already been fulfilled, you still  cannot share it with others, so that it cannot become to you actual or fully  realized in you until you take off the garment for the last time. And then you  are one with the heavenly host. Everyone is destined – you can’t brag about it,  you can’t crow about it, because you didn’t earn it. It was all God’s plan from  the beginning: “He who began a good work in you” at that moment brought it to  completion “at the day of Jesus Christ.” And Jesus Christ is God the Father.  Therefore, if Jesus Christ is God the Father, and David calls him “Lord,” who  are you? Are you not then Jesus Christ? Then you realize the words: “Do you not  realize that Jesus Christ is in thee, unless of course you fail to meet the  test.” I hope you realize that we have not failed in our  effort.

Eventually you will read the words: And the whole thing  disappears, and there was Jesus only. Moses was present, Elijah was present,  they all saw the glory of God, and when it all subsided there was Jesus only.  For at the name of Jesus Christ every knee will bend and every tongue will  confess that he is Lord, the glory of God the Father. It is only Jesus and he  has one son and he is sharing his son with you – not walking the street with you  as a friend, but as your son. He gives himself to every being in the world, and  there is no way he can prove that he actually gave that gift of himself to you,  save as David, his only begotten son, as your son. The Bible in miniature is in  John 3:10. “And God so loved the world he gave his only begotten son.” People  think he gave his only begotten son and his name is Jesus Christ. No! Jesus  Christ by his own confession is God the Father. “You see me Phillip and yet you  do not know me. He who has seen me has seen the Father. How then can you say  show us the father?”

So the son given could not be that being who calls  himself father, and the father is Jesus Christ. Who called him father? David. So  he asked the question; nobody asked him. He said: “I am the Father.” Then where  is the child? So he brings up the question: “What do you think of Christ?” and  they said: “The son of David.” Then why does David in the spirit call him Lord?  If David calls him Lord, how can he be David’s son? And no one asked any further  questions. David in the spirit calls him “Adonai,” a word used by every child  when it refers to its father. Every child spoke of its father as “Adonai,”  translated in the English: “My Lord.” So David called him “My father.” So he  tells you who he is and who David is relative to himself. So David is going to  call every being in this world: “my father.” And because God is one and his name  is one, and at that name every knee must bow, you are destined to know yourself  to be Christ Jesus, or God the Father.

But until it is revealed to you,  use his name as revealed through his prophet Moses. “And when you go to them  just tell them ‘I AM’ has sent me unto you.” Lead them out of the wilderness  into light by my name. When you can lead yourself today, no matter where you  are, whether you are now bewildered, whether you are unwanted (as you think you  are), or unemployed, (as you may be) – lead yourself from these states of  barrenness into states of fruition, a fruitful state, in the name. Just simply  assume “I AM”, and you name it, hear it, smell it, see it to the best of your  ability, and to the degree that you remain loyal to what you are imagining and  hearing, you will actually externalize it in your world. Don’t judge it before  you try it.

Now if what I have said this night offends, should it be in  conflict with what you believed when you came here, again I go back to  Scripture: “And he offended them and then they sold him for thirty pieces of  silver.” Let me go back into the Book of Leviticus. Here we are told: “If an ox  gored a slave, male or female, then the owner of the ox must pay to the owner of  the slave thirty pieces of silver and then the ox must be stoned.” The symbol of  Christ is that of an ox. If the Christian doctrine offends, well then he has  gored you by whatever he has to say. And now, having gored it, the slave will be  censured, that he must be sold for thirty pieces of silver. So, you always  fulfill Scripture. The word will always be fulfilled. The prototype of Jesus the  Christ was Joseph, and he was sold for twenty pieces of silver. Twenty means  “disappointed expectancy.” Thirty is divine perfection. Reduce it to a three and  three is also associated with resurrection. On the third day the earth rose up  out of the deep. So here, if I should offend you by what I say, then make me  sorry for my thirty pieces of silver, for Scripture is all about me. For “If the  ox gores and in any way hurts a slave” . . . then the ox must be stoned with the  facts of life.

I can tell you: in my  own case, small as it has been, it has all been when I was faithful to the use  of God’s name. When I dared to assume that I am what at the moment reason denies  and my senses deny it, and I remained faithful to it, then I invariably realized  it. There have been unnumbered times when I have not been faithful to it. I  coasted, as we all coast after a while. Then we are jacked up suddenly and we  have to go back to the use of the name. And so, “Those who know thy name put  their trust in thee.” Not in anything outside of thee. And your name is “I AM,”  and it is your name forever and forever. So put your trust in the name of God by  walking out of here tonight in the belief that you are already the man, the  woman you would like to be and see the world as you would see it, were it true.  And to the degree you remain loyal to that assumption, to that degree you will  externalize it and reap it as fruit within this world.

Now let us go into  the silence.